# 00-0. Setting up C++ on your machine.

This readme file explains the following subjects:

* Concepts: Programming language, compiler, source file.
* How to *install* the C++ programming language on your machine.
* How to write your first program, how to compile and how to run it.

# Concepts
## [Programming language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_language)
**A programming language is a notation for writing programs**.

From a very simple, but usefull point of view, a programming language is a set of sytantical rules defining a [formal language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formal_language),  that the programmers uses as a tool for specifying instructions to be processed by a computer.

## Compiler
Given the fact that any programming language is a formal language that programmers uses to instruct the computer, is necesary to clarify that **the computer does not understand** a programming language at first stage. Once the programmer specify a program throught a programming language syntax, that program has to be translated to something that the computer machine can understand: **The machine code**.

The process of translate a program in some programming language syntax to machine code is done by another program, called: **Compiler**.

## Source File.
Given a programming language syntax, a programmers can write his program using a plain-text editor in a computer. That file where the programmer save his program is called the **source code** of the program, and is that file the one that the compiler will processes to produce the machine code associated.

## Esquematic process of write a program.

1. A programmer will use a text editor in a computer to write a program following the syntactycall rules specified by a programming language.

2. When the program is ready, the programmer will use a **compiler** to translate that source file into another file that can be executed by the programmer machine.

## How to *install* the C++ programming language on your machine.

The truth is, you can not **install** a programming language. What you need to install is a compiler for the programming language of your use.

If you want to write C++ programs on your machine, you need to install a **Compiler**, in order to be able of translate your C++ source files into machine code that can be executed by your machine.

### C++ compiler for Windows.

#### MinGW Compiler
[MinGW official site and getting started guide](http://www.mingw.org/)
