# 00-1 Basic Data Types in C++ and Variables.

## Basic(Primitive) Data Types.
Computers are everywhere. Literally, everywhere. But, why?
Simple. Computers are great for represent real world stuff.
You can represent money with a computer, you can represent persons with a computer,
you can represent human intelligence with a computer.

Programming has somewhat related to represent real world entities inside a computer, for make interest process on that representatios, an obtain a result from it. You do that by writing a program in a programming language, and executing it.

Any programming language will provide a basic set of fundamental **Data Type** that will will help you in you process of represent stuff using a computer:

* Integers.
* Floating Point numbers
* Characters.
* Booleans.
* Double Floating Point numbers

Respectively, in **C++**, this are the correspondant language specific keywords correspondant to that fundamental **Data Types**:

* **int** : an int is the representation of an integer number. Integers typically requires 4 bytes of memory space and ranges from -2147483648 to 2147483647.
* **float**: floating Point data type is used for storing decimal number with single precision. Keyword used for floating point data type is float. Float variables typically requires 4 byte of memory space.  
* **char**: character data type is used to store characters. Characters typically requires 1 byte of memory space and ranges from -128 to 127 or 0 to 255.
* **bool**: booleans data type are used to store logical values. A boolean variable can store either true or false.
* **double**: double floating Point data type is used for storing decimal number with single precision. Keyword used for floating point data type is float. Float variables typically requires 8 byte of memory space.
